[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> You have a good lunch?
Yeah?
You guys feel good?
OK, we can start
taking some questions.
I think we've got
mics everywhere,
and you've got to raise
hands, and stand up, and do
all of that.
OK?
>> OK, Jon.
>> Who's first?
>> I don't really
have a question,
but I do have a statement
I'd like to make.
And that is that there
is another option as well
as the CPAP machine.
>> Right.
>> And my husband's had bad
sleep apnea for many years.
And he was put
onto a mouth guard
by a dental nurse who
said you can do that.
>> Yeah, I--
>> So that is another
option, and it works well.
>> I think it depends on the
type of sleep apnea you have.
I don't think a mouth
guard, for example,
would've worked for me because
it was the weight of my neck
and chest were just
collapsing my windpipe.
And so it had nothing
do with my mouth.
But some people have like a--
have sleep apnea because
of phlegm or flesh
in their esophagus
and things like that.
So it depends on the type of
sleep apnea that you have.
>> I'm not saying that it
was specifically for you.
But I just thought that
for the broader audience--
>> Yeah.
>> --they might help to know
that there is another option
here as well.
>> Yeah, OK, thanks.
Yeah, the bottom line is
you do, definitely, you
have to get the sleep
apnea addressed.
And it's really, really--
it's really crucial.
So whichever way you go,
you have to make sure
that once it's in place--
even when you get
a CPAP machine,
for example, sometimes,
like the first one I got,
it was blowing just
air into my nose.
But I wasn't breathing
through my nose.
So it wasn't doing
anything for me.
I had to get a special mask
that fit my nose and mouth
and had to get the
pressure just right.
And you really have
to fool with it
to make sure that it's right.
Yeah.
>> Oh, hi, Jon.
I'm going to ask the
question about alcohol.
>> Yeah.
>> Probably a lot of
people wanted to ask it,
but I thought I would.
So how detrimental is
that to our weight loss?
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, obviously
you're talking--
I'm only talking small
amounts, like a red wine, or--
>> Yeah, look.
I mean, look, this
is not a diet.
Right?
>> No.
>> So I don't-- you don't need
me to come up here and say,
don't drink, as if that's going
to do any good for anybody.
Right?
But what I have
found is that people
drink for different reasons.
People drink, smoke,
take drugs, sedatives
for different reasons.
One of them is to calm
down and relieve stress.
And what I find as a
byproduct from all of this
is that people, once
they're listening to the CD
and learning how to
deal with stress,
naturally start craving
less alcohol, less--
or quit smoking, or less drugs.
So it's an organic process.
So I always say to keep the
focus on adding the nutrients
and dealing with the stress
aspects and detoxification
aspects.
Everything else
falls into place.
You require less medication.
You need less sedatives, less
alcohol, less cigarettes,
things like that.
So just keep the focus on adding
and not so much on restriction.
Because, remember,
this is forever.
This is about getting your
body to want to be thin
and solving the problem forever.
This isn't about
being on a program
for the rest of your life.
Yes.
>> My question is regarding
the evening visualization CD.
>> You fall asleep
listening to it.
>> Beg your pardon.
>> You can fall asleep
listening to the CD.
It's fine.
>> Absolutely.
>> Yeah.
>> I've been listening
since June, July.
>> People tell me
that all the time,
that they listen
to it right away.
And as soon as they hear
it, they fall asleep.
>> Yes.
I have fantastic--
>> That's a natural--
everybody's good at something.
That's a natural
talent I have is--
>> OK.
>> --to put people
to sleep, so--
>> I sleep really well now.
>> Yeah, well.
>> I only listened like once.
I listened to the 23 minutes.
>> Yeah.
>> So my question is--
>> Nobody really
knows what the end is.
>> --does it still work?
>> I could be saying anything.
>> Does it still work
though, while I'm asleep?
>> It totally works.
It works even better actually
without your conscious mind
filtering it.
>> So no problem falling asleep.
>> But who knows what
I'm really saying?
You know?
Come to a seminar.
>> Hi, Jon.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm just asking about--
I'm one to go home.
I'll get the spirulina,
the whey powder, eat eggs.
Where do you find the balance
in between your vitamins,
and proteins, and things
that you are consuming?
Or--
>> I don't understand the
que-- what do you mean,
where do you find a balance
between the vitamins?
>> Well, I'm going to
have my eggs, omega.
I'll have a spirulina.
I'll chuck a
multivitamin in steak.
Where do you start with the whey
powder and the wheatgrass shot?
>> Where do you stop with it?
>> Where do I start?
>> Oh, where do
you start with it?
>> Yeah, do I need
all five things?
Or how do I--
>> Again, again,
it's not a diet.
OK?
You're just taking principles.
The principles are you want as
much live food as you can have.
You need a source of omega 3s.
And you need protein--
so the principles.
How you apply those
principles is totally up
to you, and your lifestyle,
and your-- and what's
available to you.
So don't stay too focused on
what specifically you're doing.
But always ask yourself,
am applying the principles?
Am I getting the
nutrients that I need?
Those three nutrients,
am I getting those?
Am I dealing with the
stress in my life?
Am I dealing with the emotional
abyss, or your sleep apnea,
or dehydration.
Stick with the
principles and concepts,
and then you can kind
of make it your own.
>> Hi, Jon.
We've just got a question
for the vegetarians.
>> Yeah.
>> You said there were
three essential things that
vegetarians need,
the protein, the--
>> Yeah, vegetarians
need a source of protein.
There's a good one called rice--
a rice protein by Sunwarrior.
So vegetarians need a
good source of protein.
They need a good
source of B vitamins,
and a really good one
is nutritional yeast.
>> Yep, and--
>> And you can get nutritional
yeast usually at a health food
store.
The best company
is called Lotus.
And it's a really high-quality
type of brewer's yeast,
has a really good
vitamin B. And the other
is fresh-squeezed
wheatgrass juice.
>> Right.
>> Because it's got lots of
vitality and nutrients that you
need.
The risk with vege--
being a vegetarian
is there's essential
nutrients that you're missing,
and you stay hungry.
And when you're hungry, you
eat bread, and rice, and beans.
And you just keep eating
those, and eating those,
and eating those.
And you don't
satisfy that, and you
stay nutritionally deficient.
Those three things,
protein, nutritional yeast,
and fresh-squeezed wheatgrass
juice will give you everything
you need to--
that you would otherwise
get from meats.
>> Yeah, thank you.
>> Yeah.
>> Hey, Jon.
>> Yes.
Sorry, Jack.
Yeah.
>> We've got three mums here--
>> Three mums.
>> --and we really just want
to know more about the skin,
and the elasticity, and
what's the best food or source
of nutrition you
can do, or take,
or even rub on your skin
to get that to go back.
>> Yeah.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> What's that?
Oh, all I can say as
far as skin elasticity
is that my skin retained
a lot of elasticity
in the weight-loss process.
And it was different
than what people--
the results that
people see when they're
losing weight through
crash dieting and surgery.
And I think one of
the reasons for that
is that when you try to lose
weight through restriction,
dieting, surgery,
extreme methods,
it places an enormous
stress on your body.
And that stress elevates
your cortisol levels.
And cortisol causes your
skin to lose its elasticity.
The way I lost weight is
a very low-stress way.
My cortisol levels were lowered.
Through all the detoxification,
through-- by adding
healthy, organic foods, and
foods that help detoxify you,
and superfoods,
my organs and skin
retained their
vitality through eating
a lot of also live foods.
And your skin-- and also losing
it in a gradual way, your skin
retains as much
elasticity as possible.
So just following the
approach, and reducing stress,
having more real,
live foods will help
your skin keep its elasticity.
>> Thank you.
>> Yeah.
>> I have an
underactive thyroid.
Now, how would this go--
losing the weight
affect the thyroid?
>> Well, the approach actually
might help you speed up--
help your thyroid
become more active.
And the reason is that,
a lot of times, people
have an underactive thyroid
because of something
called "leptin resistance."
And leptin is the master hormone
that regulates body weight.
But one of the things it does
is it slows down your thyroid.
And a lot of people
tell me they have
got an underactive thyroid,
but that's exactly what happens
when your fat
programs are activated
is your thyroid slows down.
By dealing with all of the
different things that turn off
those fat programs,
your body becomes
more sensitive to
this hormone, leptin,
and then it sends a
signal from your brain
to your thyroid to speed up.
And then your thyroid speeds up.
So that-- so just
following the approach
may actually help tremendously
to get the thyroid
to be more normal.
>> Because I've just had
to up my tablets through it
because I've just had
another attack with it.
So--
>> Yeah.
>> All right, thank you.
>> You've got the CD for
the nighttime meditation
and the one for the
morning meditation.
When would you integrate the
"Living Goddess" meditation CD?
>> OK, I just want to mention--
a couple of people have asked
me.
That visualization that
we did this morning is
very similar to the
morning visualization CD
that I have out there, so if
you're interested in that.
And I do recommend that you
listen to that in the morning.
I have another CD, which
this lady is talking about,
called the "Living Goddess"
CD, which I made specifically
for women, especially mothers
who are giving, and giving,
and giving.
And when you're a mother,
you, by definition,
you have a boundary issue.
Because you've got someone that
you've-- that's part of you,
that you've given birth.
You can't say no
to them too easily.
You don't want to.
But so you're giving,
and giving, and giving.
And what happens is
you're giving there.
You're giving at work.
You're giving with your
partner, with all--
with your friends.
You're giving, and
giving, and giving.
And if you're giving
from your own natural--
or from your own resources,
you get depleted.
And what happens is your
body kind of uses weight
to kind of protect you
from everyone that's
wanting something from you.
It's another way to use
weight as a boundary
if your boundaries
aren't strong.
And the "Living Goddess"
meditation, what it does
is rather than connect--
rather than have you give from
your own personal resource,
it connects you to just like
the source of all energy,
like this ocean of
energy, and lets
it come through you
so that you're not
draining your own resources.
You just become a tap
for just universal energy
to just flow through you.
And then you're
never, ever exhausted.
And then your body doesn't
need to use the weight
as a form of-- as a boundary.
It's a really
powerful meditation.
And the answer to
your question is,
it would be really good if you
had a specific time of the day
that you devoted
just to meditating,
whether it's like 10 o'clock
in the afternoon, or 3 o'clock
in the--
or 10 o'clock in the
morning, rather, or 3 o'clock
in the afternoon.
I'm in a lot of different
time zones right now.
OK?
It's still 10 o'clock
in the afternoon for me.
OK?
But a specific time during
the day or once a week,
but just something, whatever
it is, whether it's once a day,
whether it's once a
week, whether it's
three times, whatever is, it
has to be a pattern and a habit
that you're doing all the time.
And then it gets
easier and easier.
And then it just
happens automatically.
You'll find if you meditate
every day at 4:00 o'clock
in the afternoon
for half an hour,
and you stop doing
it one day, you're
just going to feel
totally different.
Your body is going to
want you to sit down.
You're going to get
spacey, and you're
going to want to
have that meditation.
So doing it enough times
at the same time every day,
whatever that is,
will create a pattern
for where you're
just-- after that, you
just-- it becomes automatic.
Like for me, I do a meditation--
I do visualization
every morning.
And I don't have
to think about it.
I mean, I want to sit.
That's the one thing.
And as I sit, I go deeper,
and deeper, and deeper.
All this information
comes to me.
All this energy comes to me.
I'm calmer.
I feel a sense of power
coming through me.
And then the rest
of the day, I just
let it happen the
way it happens.
>> Jon.
>> Yeah.
>> Hi, Jon.
I've been following the
principles from the book
and have noticed a definite
change in the way that I eat.
And when I need to eat sort of
shifted up earlier in the day.
But I have insulin resistance,
and amounts are a problem.
I don't always know-- sometimes
I'll know when I'm full,
and sometimes I know that I've
eaten more than I need to eat.
And I don't really have a
great signal on when's enough.
So--
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, you don't.
Yeah, that's right.
Because when the
fat programs are on,
you get insulin resistance.
That's exactly right.
But everything that
we're doing here,
everything that
we're doing here is
to address that insulin
resistance so that--
and also what's accompanying
it is the leptin resistance so
that your brain will start
listening to your stomach
better.
Right now, your brain's not
listening to your stomach
right now when you're eating.
So when you're full, it's
not paying attention.
That will change.
All of these things,
all these things
start to try to undo themselves.
Yeah.
>> Jon, hi, Jon.
With emotional
obesity, following
on from the other
lady's question,
there are issues that we
have from early childhood.
>> Yeah.
>> And often, the weight issue
may not manifest until much
later in our life.
Now, do we need to be
focusing on that initial issue
from our early childhood?
Or would we be better
served by focusing
on the trigger
that actually comes
to play in our later life?
Or are they connected?
>> The answer to
that question is,
if the emotional issue triggered
a weight gain initially,
in other words, if it did-- like
if you have something happen
when you were seven years old
and that's when you started
gaining weight, then, yes, you
have to go back and deal with
it if the trigger caused
the weight gain initially.
If it didn't or, rather, if
the issue caused weight gain
initially-- if it didn't
cause weight gain initially,
and you've got some sort of
trigger here that's reminding
you of that, and your body is
using weight as a reaction,
then, no, you don't have to.
>> That trigger though, in
the present, for example,
may be the same thing
that happened back then.
>> It doesn't matter.
I understand the question, yeah.
>> Right.
>> But what I'm saying is, you
can deal with just the trigger
right now unless originally
when it happened,
it caused you to gain weight.
If originally when it happened
it caused you to gain weight,
then, yes, you've
got to go back to it.
You've got to reexamine it.
You've got to release
it on a cellular level
through some sort
of healing modality.
>> Sure.
>> Yeah.
>> Thank you.
>> Yeah, yes.
Hi.
I'm sure that my problem
is emotional obesity.
But I-- and I know it
started at a very early age,
but I don't know
what the trigger was.
Do you have to find
the trigger before you
can deal with healing?
Or is hypnotherapy useful?
>> That's another--
that's definitely--
that's definitely a case
for a really gifted healer
because a really gifted healer
will be able to take you back
and intuitively know what
happened and what to do about
it.
So that's a--
>> So do you think
hypnotherapy is useful?
>> I'm sorry.
>> Do you think hypnotherapy
is useful in that case?
>> It can be.
But you have to deal with
the right hypnotherapist
and the right healer.
I think the right
healer is more important
than the right modality.
Yeah.
And that's a question
of trial and error
of finding people
that you've talked to.
Where are we?
Yes.
>> What was the food or beverage
that made you gain the weight
a couple of years ago?
>> Well, yeah, thank you.
I used to eat a lot
of pizza, actually.
Pizza caused me to gain weight.
But it was more that
there was a need inside me
to hold onto weight, I
think, and that would--
and that caused me to eat
a lot of fattening foods.
But I definitely liked
pizza, no question about it.
>> Hi.
>> I suffer from
polycystic ovaries.
>> Yeah.
>> It's a condition that makes
my hormones jump up and down.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> And I tend to gain weight
during my period quite rapidly.
>> Yeah.
>> I was just wondering if
you've got any advice about
that?
>> Yeah, I do, and I'm really
glad you mentioned that
because I want to put this up.
I'm going to put someone else
on the screen who I mentioned
before, Dr. Howard Liebowitz.
And his radio show is called
"Hormones Spoken Here."
I'm actually-- I'm a
regular on the show now.
I appear every once a month,
I think the first Tuesday
of the month in
the States, which
is the first Wednesday
of the month.
He's quite considered
the world authority
on natural hormone balancing.
And polycystic ovarian
syndrome is a really tricky one
because it does wreak
havoc on your hormones.
But he's got it-- in his show,
you can call and talk to him,
and he'll answer your questions.
It's a huge gift because--
I don't know-- it would
be very difficult to get
an appointment with this guy.
He's been-- you know Dr. Phil
from the "Dr. Phil Show?"
I don't know.
He's Dr. Phil's doctor.
He's been on the "Dr.
Phil Show" a few times.
He deals with all kinds of
famous celebrities, so very
tough to deal--
to get an appointment.
But you can call
in and talk to him.
And polycystic ovar-- things
like polycystic ovarian
syndrome and menopause are areas
that you want to talk to him
about to get the best advice on
how to balance your hormones.
Because the stress
of the hormone--
of your hormones going
all over the place
is causing weight gain.
>> Thanks.
I just wanted to
ask also about rice
and what you think about eating
rice and things like couscous,
sort of more dense food.
>> Well, what about them?
What do you--
>> Just if they're
not good to eat, or--
>> OK, the question is
about rice and couscous,
if they're not good to eat.
For me, the foods that I'm
attracted to these days
are foods that have one of
those essential ingredients.
Either they're live, they've got
omega 3s, or they're protein.
My body's been really
trained at this point
that that's all
I'm interested in.
And when I need other things
like grains, and rice,
and bread, it just-- it
tastes like cardboard to me.
So you can eat it and
whenever you want.
But know that it's not
really doing anything other
than providing energy, but
you have energy already.
Your body just doesn't know
how to access that energy.
So all it is is just
storing more energy.
So eat it, but always
add those ingredients
that we're talking about too
whenever you're eating it.
Add the couscous,
or add the rice
to a salad with some
meat, chicken, fish.
Find some-- put some
ground flaxseeds on it,
something like that.
>> Thank you.
>> Sure.
>> Hey, Jon.
>> Yes.
>> Hi.
I follow your food program, and
I've lost like 30 centimeters
off my waist, which
is very exciting.
>> Great.
>> But I've sort of got stuck,
and my-- it was my personal
trainer who said I needed
to get my thinking right.
So I've come to this seminar.
It's been really good.
But I'm just wondering, with
sort of heavyish weightlifting,
not--
well, yeah, as
heavy as I can do,
that sort of has made a big
difference to my insulin
resistance.
But do you have an opinion about
whether that could possibly
be a positive or negative
thing in my program.
>> You're talking about
exercise and weightlifting.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> OK, I'm glad you
brought that up too.
I want to talk about exercise.
And a couple of people have
asked me about exercise.
You know, exercise, people
look at exercise in terms
of the calories that you burn.
Right?
And when you're looking
at weight loss in terms
of calories in,
calories out, then
exercise is good because
it burns calories.
But I remember, like
when I lived in New York
and I was trying to lose weight,
and I had fitness trainers,
I used to go to the gym.
And I'd ride the stationary
bike for an hour.
And it said I would lose maybe
like 1,000 kilojoules, or 300
calories.
And I'd think to myself, 300
calories, that's like a bagel.
You know?
Why don't I just
not eat the bagel?
It's really, you know, like
to exercise for a whole hour,
and so I used to get
discouraged by that.
And when you look at
it from its calories
in, calories out perspective,
it is kind of discouraging.
But exercise, it can
also be used as a tool
to get your body
to want to be thin.
And that's different
than burning calories.
And if you use
exercise as a tool
to get your body
to want to be thin,
then it becomes
extremely effective,
and you don't have to do
it that long or that often
in order to do it.
Do you remember I said before--
[LAUGHTER]
What happened?
What's so funny?
Do you remember I said
before that you've
got that "get thin, or
get eaten" adaptation?
And if you look at your
body's set point-- like right
now, if your body's
set point is 80
and you think you're
being chased by a tiger,
your set point
quickly goes down.
So if you can get-- use exercise
as a tool to trick you that you
think--
into thinking that you're
being chased by a tiger
or into activating this "get
thin, or get eaten" adaptation,
then you've shifted
your set point.
Then you've got your body
to want to be thin rather
than just burn calories.
And I remember the way I
discovered this was about 3/4
into my weight loss process.
I remember I was
biking up a hill.
And I was thinking, I
really need something
to give my weight loss a boost.
And the second I thought that,
this dog comes out of nowhere
and started chasing
me from a driveway,
sort of [MIMICS DOG SNARLING]
And he's like this far away from
taking out my Achilles tendon
for a kilometer.
And I stand up.
And I'm sprinting, and I'm
sprinting, and I'm sprinting.
And I'm looking back.
And he's going [SNARLS].
Finally, he gives up.
And I was just relieved
and all that stuff.
The next couple of weeks,
my weight just like just
plummeted, like weight just was
dropping off me left and right.
And I wasn't hungry, and
I couldn't figure out
what it was.
And then, eventually,
I made the connection
about this dog chasing me.
And then so after that,
whenever I was biking
and I got to that
point, I'd stand up,
and I'd imagine that
the dog was chasing me.
Because your mind doesn't know.
The brain-- the
part of your brain
that's in charge of
how fat or thin you are
doesn't know the
difference between
a real and imagined experience.
What happens in your brain
is if this is your head
and this is your
neck here, this is
your-- this is the
part of your brain
that's in charge of how
fat or thin you are.
And your eyes are here, and
your visual cortex is here.
So it takes in the
information through your eyes,
and then it sends it down to
this part of you and says,
you're being chased by a tiger.
But if you just
do a visualization
and send that same
information down there,
it doesn't know where
it's coming from,
and it doesn't know
if it's real or not.
It's like that
movie "War Games."
You ever see the
movie "War Games"
years ago with
Matthew Broderick?
In the first scene
in that movie,
there were these two men at
the bottom of a nuclear silo
300 feet down.
And they were in
charge of pressing
a button for a nuclear war.
That was their job.
And they would get the
call, press the button.
And they didn't
know if it was real,
if it was a real World War III
or if it was just an exercise.
All they knew was they
had to press the button.
If the world was going
to end, they didn't know.
They just got the signal.
And it's the same with
this part of your brain.
It just gets a signal.
It doesn't know where
the signal's coming from.
So when you do a visualization,
visualize anything,
your body thinks
it's actually real.
And they've done experiments
with Olympic athletes where
they visualize
their ideal sport,
and all of the
muscles and nerves
get fired in the
exact same sequence
as if they're really
doing the sport.
So I would get to
that certain point.
I'd stand up, and I'd sprint.
And I'd imagine I was
being chased by this dog.
Eventually, I got kind of lazy.
And I just-- before
I was going to sleep,
I'd just imagine that
I was being chased
by like a tiger or
something like that, like I
was in really good shape.
I was running as fast I can.
I'm being chased by a tiger.
I'd just do the visualization.
You know?
Because your body doesn't know
the difference between a real
and imagined experience.
So what you can
do with exercise--
like if you were
going for a walk,
you're going for
a 20-minute walk.
Don't just do this power
walk where you're just
bang, bang, bang, bang,
bang for 20 minutes doing
this cardio-pump thing.
Walk leisurely.
But then every once in a while,
just for 10 or 20 seconds,
move as fast as you can, and
I mean as fast as you can.
And imagine you're being
chased by a predator.
Get your doctor's approval
for this, obviously.
[LAUGHTER]
OK?
I don't want any
deaths on my hands.
Yeah, but--
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> OK, but let me
finish what I'm doing.
OK?
I'll come back to it.
But stand up and move
as fast as you can.
OK, and imagine you're
being chased by a predator.
Because if you were walking
in the woods and a bear
started chasing
you, you wouldn't
go for a 40-minute cardio walk.
Right?
You'd go for 10
seconds, life or death.
That's what you would go for.
And they've done studies.
They did a study with
women where one of them
was exercising every
single day for 40
minutes on a stationary
bike, just spinning.
And the other one was
exercising three times
a week for 20 minutes but
sprinting for 11 seconds
periodically.
That group lost three
times as much weight.
You're not going to
burn as much calories,
but you're going to
shift your set points.
And once you shift your set
point, everything else happens.
So don't focus so much
calories in, calories out.
Focus on, how am I
shifting my set points?
And then it all comes together.
Now, the other thing
is, when you're
doing that type of intensity,
and if you look at-- also,
if you look at
Olympic sprinters,
they've got less body fat on
them than marathon runners.
Not that marathon
runners are fat,
but Olympic sprinters look
like an anatomy class.
They've got zero fat.
And why should that be if you're
just sprinting 10 minutes--
10 seconds every once in a while
as opposed to a marathon runner
who's running 20Ks every day?
The difference is, their body
thinks they have to be thin,
or they're dead.
Because that sprint
is activating
the "get thin, or get
eaten" adaptation.
But you don't want to do
it too much because you
need the intensity.
If you do it everyday,
you will overtrain.
Overtraining elevates
your cortisol levels.
That actually makes you fatter.
That makes your body want--
that shifts your set point back.
And they have done studies.
They did studies with
cross-country skiers
in Colorado at the
University of Colorado
where the more exercise they
did, the more weight they lost.
But it got to a certain point
where they did so much exercise
that they overtrained, and
they started gaining weight.
So you want to do it a couple
times a week, three times,
four times max.
Have rest days.
But on those days,
hit it really hard.
Now, as far as weight training
goes, do it on the same days
that you're doing
any other exercise,
so you still have rest days.
And weight training can
be really, really useful
for helping your muscles become
more sensitive to insulin.
Because what it does, any
type of intensity exercise,
it's almost like a sponge.
It rings your muscles
out of stored sugar.
And then when you're done, your
muscles want to suck sugar up.
And when your muscles
want to suck sugar up,
they become very
sensitive to insulin.
And so it actually helps
increase insulin resistan--
insulin sensitivity.
But do it at the
same time as you're
doing any other exercise,
and have rest days.
Yeah.
>> Jon, hi, Jon.
>> Hi.
>> I start work at 2
o'clock in the morning.
>> Yeah.
>> Can you give me some advice
as to how to do this with that
odd sort of--
>> With what?
>> --sleeping and
eating pattern?
>> Yeah, do you start
work every day to 2:00
o'clock in the morning?
Or--
>> Yes.
>> Yeah, all right,
you just have to have--
and this is a good way to
kind of tie into a day.
Let's just look at a day.
OK?
If you take a day,
beginning of the day,
and this is the end of the day.
Let's call it 100 units.
OK?
So at a certain point,
whatever, whether it's
2:30 in the morning or whatever,
at a cert-- when you wake up,
you want to have some
water and probiotics.
You want to do some
sort of visualization.
You want to have a really good
breakfast within like, say,
an hour of when you wake
up, hour and a half,
and then lunch,
whenever you have lunch.
You want to have a snack at
the equivalent of two hours
after lu--
two hours after lunch, a
snack, very similar to whatever
it is that you've
been eating, and then
dinner just at two hours,
two or three hours later,
two to three hours
later, dinner.
And drink a lot of
water at night--
OK, if you're just looking
from a food perspective
to getting your
blood sugar stable,
eating most your
foods during the day.
So whatever time
you're waking up,
whether it's 2:00 in the
morning, 4:00 in the morning,
6:00 in the morning,
you just want
to have the same
basic principles.
So if you're waking up
at 2:30 in the morning,
but if you can do some
visualization at 3:00
in the morning, and then
have breakfast at 4:00,
et cetera, et cetera,
et cetera, but keep--
but you don't want to go
too long in the morning
without eating.
That's really crucial.
Yeah.
>> Hello, Jon.
>> Hi.
>> My question is about
rheumatoid arthritis.
>> Yeah.
>> What success has the
Gabriel method had on that?
>> A lot, and especially
because of the omega 3s over
a six-month period.
Omega 3s are a natural
anti-inflammatory.
And from eating more live foods
that help detoxify the joints,
we've had enormous
success with that.
Yeah.
Yes.
>> Hi, Jon.
I'm just wondering,
from your experience,
if you can comment
on sudden trauma,
and how you keep maintaining
when something really traumatic
happens, and your default
is to go back to old habits.
Are you able to
comment a bit on that?
>> "Old habits"
meaning habits from--
>> Before you start even
reading up on the Gabriel method
and things like it, does it come
naturally after a little while?
So then sudden trauma or
anything really drastic
happens.
Then you kind of keep
the maintenance up?
I mean, I'd find
with sudden trauma
sometimes that meditation
or anything like that
is really difficult,
and you go back to what
you default to knowing to do.
>> Yeah, well, that is true.
When you're in a
state of trauma,
you just want to retreat.
But that's why I made--
the CDs are easy.
They're very passive.
You just have to listen to
them as you're going to sleep.
You don't have to kind
of like force yourself.
It's an automatic thing.
You can concentrate
or not concentrate.
So I would start
with that, yeah.
>> Hi.
I just want to ask about,
a lot of my family's
overweight on both sides.
>> Yeah.
>> What do you think
about hereditary or genes?
Or has that got
anything to do with it.
Or--
>> The thing about genetics
is genetics will determine how
predisposed you are to
activating the fat programs.
And what also happens is,
when a woman is pregnant,
they will communicate to--
a lady will communicate to
the fetus what type of world
you're being born into.
Are you being born
into a world of famines
where you need the
fat programs or tigers
where you need to be thin?
That information will be
communicated to the fetus
so that they will be
predisposed toward activating
the fat programs or not.
One study in England over
40,000 people over years
was that women who give
birth during winter time,
the children are much more
likely to have insulin
resistance when they grow up.
And that's because that
information that it's-- that
you're growing up in a cold
world is being communicated
to the fetus, so they're more
predisposed to activating
the programs that cause insulin
resistance in the fat programs.
But that's all it is is
it's a predisposition.
It makes it a quicker
trigger, but it's a trigger
to activating certain genes.
And you can still do work
to activating other genes.
You just have to understand
what's turning the genes on
and what's turning them off.
Yeah.
>> I'm sorry in advance.
I've lost my voice.
But what if you're born bigger,
and you've done everything
that you can do?
>> I can't-- yeah.
>> Like I've never
had McDonald's, KFC,
or Hungry Jack's.
>> Yeah.
>> Like, I don't eat junk food.
I watch what I eat.
Carbs I have in moderation.
I don't eat after 4 o'clock.
I do exercise.
I've got heavily into Zumba.
It's like you're running
around like an idiot,
but I don't care.
>> I can't hear the last part.
I'm sorry.
>> I do Zumba.
Zumba, it's like
the new dance craze.
>> Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> I run around like an idiot.
I sweat like a pig.
And--
>> OK, but everything you're
telling me is about diet
and exercise.
>> But it, like--
>> Yeah, am I right?
>> --even though I do it,
I still have a mindset.
Yeah.
It's not like I hate myself.
I accept how I am.
So it's not a negative feeling.
Is this-- is it like something
that I've been born with?
Or it's not like
it's been created
from a trigger or anything.
So--
>> Yeah, yeah.
So pretty much, but
everything you're telling me
is in terms of
diet and exercise.
If I was talking
to you, I'd want
to know a lot more about
you, about what your life is,
what the stresses are, when you
first started gaining weight.
>> Maybe you're like born--
born fat.
>> Born-- maybe that's
true, and maybe it isn't.
But what I was going to say
is, part of this seminar
includes a phone
consultation with me.
So you can call my
office, speak to Jenny,
and set up a time
for us to talk.
And we'll go-- we'll try
to personalize it, and go
through your issues, and
see what works for you.
Thanks.
>> Hi.
My question is about
autoimmune disorders.
So would your method
help that as well?
>> Actually, actually it can.
There's no question
about it, yeah.
>> All right.
>> Yeah.
>> Thanks.
I'm going to-- is--
I just want to make-- show you
how we made this milkshake.
Did you guys like that
milkshake, by the way?
>> [MURMURING]
>> OK, that milkshake-- there
was a no there, all right,
but anyway, a lot of yeses.
That milkshake basically is
protein powder, organic cocoa
powder, chia seeds.
So it's got flaxseeds,
or chia seeds,
or omega 3s, and some xylitol.
It'll keep your
blood sugar stable.
It'll nouri--
it'll energize you.
It'll nourish you with
omega 3s and protein.
And to me, it tastes great.
I'll just show you how to make--
if I can get Abby
to come up here,
she's going to help
me make it, if you
want to give Abby a hand.
[APPLAUSE]
Come on up.
You can help me.
Can you help, Abby?
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
Abby's my good friend here.
We've been talking all day.
So what we're going to do is we
put some milk in the blender.
You can do it.
Can you do it?
>> And--
>> Go ahead.
Put it up to about here.
Go ahead.
>> Here?
>> Sure.
Pour.
I'll tell you when.
Good.
That's good.
And put a banana and just
some of that concoction
that we made.
And that's good.
>> Oh, no.
>> I never know how--
I don't look at--
it says how much
to put in though.
It looks about right.
OK, how we doing now?
Just give that a--
go ahead.
Put that on.
No, try that one.
There we go.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Ha, ha.
It's not coming out, is it?
All right, and
that should be it.
And so it's really
useful also for kids.
Let me just make sure
it's good enough for you.
[LAUGHTER]
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> All right?
Here you go.
>> Thank you.
>> Anybody didn't get?
Anybody want any more?
No.
>> Well, does that have seeds--
>> Do you want some more?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> What's that?
OK.
>> Does that have seeds in it?
>> It's got chia seeds in it.
>> Then how often can you
have it during the day?
>> How often can you
You can have it once
or twice, I guess.
It's a good one to
have in the morning.
>> Is it a meal replacement?
>> It can be a meal
because it's got proteins.
It's got omega 3s.
It's got some live food in it.
It's got pretty much
everything you need.
But it doesn't
have to be a meal.
It's just-- it's an alternative.
It's a way to get--
it tastes good too.
>> i think 3 o'clock
the afternoon is--
>> 3 o'clock in the
afternoon is perfect.
What do you think?
Is it any good?
Are you happy with it?
>> It's really good.
>> OK, good.
Can you give Abby
a hand, please?
[APPLAUSE]
You can take your seat now.
We'll talk later,
OK, sweetheart?
Thanks.
So--
>> Can it be made so that
kids can take it to school?
>> Yeah, can it be made
for kids to take to school?
Ha, ha, ha.
That was hers.
>> I let her have a sip--
>> Oh, you're sweet.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah.
No, I know.
I'm just teasing.
But, all right, and I just want
to talk a little bit about kids
if we can.
And with kids, it's
really a couple
of things are really important.
One is the blood
sugar component.
Because all kids that
suffer from weight
issues have elevated
insulin levels
and can't keep their
blood sugar stable.
So with kids, you
really, really have
to be proactive with
their blood sugar, which
means that you have to know
before they do that their blood
sugar is going to go down.
They have to have a
really good breakfast.
Now, kids, they don't want
to have a good breakfast.
They don't want to
eat healthy foods.
And that's why we're
putting together
all types of different
foods that we
call "super delicious,
super nutritious"
that tastes just as
good as any other food,
but it's got really
healthy ingredients.
So we've got
brownies, ice creams,
chocolate milkshakes all
made from protein powder.
If there's sweetener,
it's xylitol.
They've got some
sort of omega 3s.
live food in them.
They're not overly
burdened with starchy carbs
that send your blood
sugar through-- they
keep your blood sugar stable.
They nourish your body.
And so a shake like this, if a
kid's in a hurry and he doesn't
want to-- he or she doesn't
want to have breakfast,
and they say, all right, well,
just have a quick milkshake,
they'll have that.
As soon as they
get home, they can
have a milkshake like that--
but being really proactive.
And when you-- you have
to know, for example, when
a kid gets home from
school, their blood sugar
is going to be way down.
You don't know what type of food
choices they made for lunch.
You don't know that they ate
what you packed for them.
And when you go to schools,
they've got all kinds of--
they've got soda machines.
They've got candy machines.
And you don't know what
type of food choices
your kids are making.
And usually, by
the end of the day,
their blood sugar is plummeting.
So you want to make
sure you've given them
a really good breakfast.
And as soon as the second
they walk through the door,
the second you pick
them up, you want
to make sure you're giving
them something healthy that
keeps their blood sugar stable.
And I've got a--
we can check the--
I don't think we have it
up on the website just yet.
But you can maybe email
Jenny, and then check soon.
We've got a really
good-- like chocolate
brownie, chocolate mousse, ice
cream recipes, cake recipes,
all things that kids
would eat and really think
that they were kind
of junk food but have
healthy ingredients to them.
Also with kids, you-- like
when you're serving a meal,
you always want to at least
have a salad there and have
some sort of fruit there, not
necessarily push it on them,
but get them in the
habit of knowing
that every meal's got a salad.
Every meal, you've
got sprinkles.
I've got friends
who've got little kids.
They put sprinkles.
And sprinkles are
the ground flaxseeds.
And if you don't serve
a salad at dinner,
they'll say, mommy,
where's my salad?
So just have that as alt-- as
there for them all the time,
so every meals has a salad,
has ground flaxseeds.
There's fruit everywhere.
Fruit is always available.
But don't turn it into diet.
It takes a lot of discipline
and a lot of patience
to deal with childhood obesity.
Because you can force
a kid to lose weight
by dieting, by sending him to
fat camps like we did when I--
like we went to
when I was younger,
or putting locks on
the refrigerator,
or all of these type of things.
You can force a
kid to lose weight.
But every pound that
you take away from them
is a pound that they're
going to be fighting
for the rest of their life
because of mental and emotional
issues and trauma.
I can't tell you
how many people I've
talked to, how many thousands
of people I've talked to that
says, well, my mother used to
put me on every kind of diet.
I didn't even have a weight
problem, but she was on a diet.
My mother put me on
every kind of diet.
So you're kind of--
you're not-- you're
sending a couple of messages--
one, that they're not good
enough the way they are, that
you don't love them the way
they are, even if it's not true.
Of course, it's not true.
These are the messages
that they're getting.
So you have to really be
kind of a little bit covert
about the issue, and
really, really patient,
and understand that the
problem is they can't regulate
their blood sugar right now.
There's some sort of stress.
It could be also toxins.
I mean, if you look
at when kids today--
I heard that in the
States, for example,
by the time they're
three years old,
they've had something like
70 different vaccinations.
Now, you know, vaccinations
may or may not be essential.
I'm not going to get
into that argument,
but they do have toxins.
They've got mercury.
They've got formaldehyde.
They've got all types
of different bacterias
that are cultivated in organs
of dogs, and monkeys, and pigs.
And we're giving them
one after the other
after the other of these
in the name of health.
And maybe it's the right thing.
Maybe it's not.
I don't know.
But I do know there's toxins.
So you have to understand
why a kid's overweight.
He's overweight because
he's bombarded with toxins.
He's overweight because of
the stresses in his life
are so much bigger than the
stresses that we used to have,
whether it's academic stress
or whether it's peer pressures.
They're being
bombarded with media
that's causing them
stress and telling them
they're not good enough.
So there's toxins that are
causing them to gain weight.
There's stress that are
The food that they're eating is
nutritionally barren, much more
so than when we were kids.
There's nothing in that but
just empty, dead carbohydrates
and saturated fats.
They can't regulate their
blood sugar properly.
The arti-- there's
MSG in everything,
activating their fat
programs, diet soda that's
activating their fat programs.
So all of these things are
activating their fat programs,
so you can't look at a kid
with the standard paradigm
of calories in, calories out.
You've got to understand
what's going on
and then be really,
really patient
in how you're dealing with it.
So how do you deal with it?
You've got to find some way
to deal with the stress.
We're in the process of making
a visualization CD for kids
that they can listen to.
But in the meantime, if
they're over nine years old,
they can listen to
the visualization
CD that we have already,
the evening one,
or just the smart mode music.
When you play it at night
while they're studying,
or at dinnertime,
or just at night,
it's just the
music that puts you
in a less stressful environment.
It's just background
music, the same background
music that you were just
listening to in the last CD--
so playing that type of music,
getting out and just going out
for walks, but doing
stress reduction,
learning how to include foods
that detoxify, foods that
are very high alkaline
like fresh juices
and wheatgrass juice if
you'll have it, live food.
But always have the foods that
their body is starving for,
the live foods, the omega 3s,
and the protein in every meal.
And if you can't get
it in in healthy ways,
you have to do it
in sneaky ways.
Use xylitol as a
sweetener for cakes,
cookies, all these things.
Use protein powder in
part of the batter instead
of some of the grains.
Use organic spelt instead
of whe-- instead of flour.
And then mix it
with protein powder.
Put ground flaxseeds on
or linseeds on everything.
There's chewable
fish oil capsules
that they can take to
take their ground--
to take their fish
oils, their omega 3s.
Put sprinkles on every meal.
So every meal's got salads.
It's got sprinkles of ground
flaxseeds at every single meal,
and it's got fruit
at every single meal.
And if they want dessert,
they can have dessert,
but only after they've
eaten their proper food.
But what's the dessert?
It's a Gabriel
method dessert that's
probably healthier than
anything else they're eating.
They can have the milkshake.
They can have the brownie.
They can have the
chocolate mousse
only if they ate
the good things.
But no matter how you slice
it, they're getting things.
They're nourishing
their body, keeping
their blood sugar stable.
And watch as they become
more attentive and more alert
because omega 3s are going
to keep them much more
attentive and much more alert.
Watch how they're cra--
how they have more energy,
how their cravings change.
And then what happens
is a positive momentum
develops in their life.
When they see that they can
have control over the issue,
that it's not just this horrible
issue that's plaguing them,
that there's no
solution, but they
have control over the issue,
they want to learn more then.
When they see things are
happening, they want--
they're going to start coming
to you and saying, mommy,
what else do I do?
That's when you
really can create
a great partnership
between you and your kid
to get them to work with you.
That's when you can
take them out for walks,
and take them out for bike
rides, and help them--
get them to help you
make healthy foods,
and instruct them
on what's healthy.
And if you can get
that personal mo--
that positive
momentum in their life
that's created by having
some success in dealing
with the real issues, and
giving them more energy,
and developing their
personal-- their self-esteem
and their personal power,
then they'll run with it.
Once they have the tools that
they need to solve the problem
and they see that they
can solve the problem,
they will run with it.
But it has to be
done by understanding
the principles of what
causes you to gain weight
rather than dealing with
the standard, old paradigm
that we all know that
doesn't work of calories in,
calories out.
So I'll take a couple
more questions.
>> I just wanted to ask
about the visualization CDs.
Are they available in
MP3 format to download?
>> Yeah, yeah, they are.
But you have to email my office.
Email jenny@gabrielmethod.
>> OK.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, Jon, I just wanted to
tell you about what happened
with my daughter.
I read "The Gabriel
Method" last year-- never
did anything about it.
And basically, she
was very overweight.
She was probably 15 in a
size 20 women's clothing.
Came December, she
decided she was
going to do something about it.
So all I did was fill the
house with as much fruit
as I could and vegetables.
She started to walk on
a treadmill every day
even when it was 44 degrees.
>> Wow.
>> She added xylitol to her diet
because I told her how good it
was for her.
So every sweetener she
put in it was xylitol.
Every night for dinner, she
would have the biggest salad
she could have with chicken, or
meat, or whatever was in there.
Every breakfast, she would
have the hugest breakfast.
She'd never eaten breakfast.
So I never told
her what to have,
but she'd have like eight
Weet-Bix and banana,
which was-- is huge.
>> Yeah.
>> It's a huge meal.
Or she'd have
oatmeal and banana.
And for dessert, she'd
have yogurt and fruit.
Well, come June,
she'd lost 26 kilos--
>> Wow.
>> --which was-- which is huge.
[APPLAUSE]
She went from a
size 20 to a size 8.
>> Wow.
>> So what's happened since
June is she doesn't exercise
anymore.
She eats pretty much
the same, but she also
treats herself all the time.
She hasn't put on 100
grams of that weight--
>> Wow.
>> --because the fat switch has
been switched off in her brain
now.
>> That's awesome.
>> And she did interval training
without even knowing what it
was because she'd
walk every day.
And then she got bored with
that, so she'd run a bit.
>> That's great.
>> And she'd walk,
and she'd run a bit.
>> That's great.
>> So she's now at a stage where
she's the most positive person
that I've ever met
and encourages me now.
>> That's great.
>> Because I need
to lose weight.
Because it's actually
not that hard, mum.
>> That's great.
>> Yeah, so I just wanted to
share that with you anyway.
>> Thank you so much.
And you could tell--
if you ask her to send
me an email sometime,
jon@gabrielmethod, ask
her to send me an email.
I'd love to talk to her
and congratulate her.
And I'll tell you the truth.
It's been my experience
that kids are actually--
it's much easier to get a kid
to lose weight than an adult.
Because once you just go in
the right direction with it
and they develop the momentum,
man, they run with it.
They run with it.
And it's an incredible thing
to watch a kid just totally
transform.
It really is, so thanks
for sharing that story.
Yeah.
Yes.
>> Hi.
My grandson is two
and a half years old,
and he's never had nuts.
Would it be safe to start him
on a bit of flaxseed sprinkles?
>> Well, I wouldn't think--
I wouldn't know why not.
But check with your doctor first
before you have any questions.
OK?
>> OK, thanks.
>> Yes.
I mean, certainly, we've
done that with my kids
and my friend's kids.
So--
>> Hi.
You were saying that they
need to eat all their dinner
before their dessert.
Would that cause
overeating because they
want to get to the dessert?
>> I think that--
I think it's sort of like a
kind of reverse psychology
type of thing.
Because it's much healthier
than saying, don't eat that,
and you don't have enough,
because at least there's
a message of excess there.
And again, maybe
in the short term,
you're not going to lose weight.
But in the long term, you're
communicating to your body
that there's excess
of food out there,
and then food doesn't
become that exciting.
And it's a little bit--
with food is sort of like-- to
me, food's like a relationship.
With a relationship, like
you just meet somebody,
and you fall in love
with them, and you
don't know when you're
going to see them again.
And all you want-- all you
do is think about them.
And do they like you?
And do you like them?
And there's just this magnetism
between the two of you
because it's forbidden,
and you don't
know when you're going to--
when it's going to happen
or where they are.
And then like two
years down the road,
they're sitting in your
couch, and then watching
football all day, and just
hanging out on the couch,
and you can't wait to get
rid of them at that point.
You know what I mean?
Because they're
there all the time.
Well, food's a little
bit like that too.
When there's all this food that
you can't have, you walk by,
and, oh, I don't
want to look at it.
And, ooh, it looks really good.
And could I just smell it?
You know?
There's all this attachment.
There's this attraction to it.
But when you can have
whatever you want,
it just becomes an old
thing after a while.
And in the beginning,
it's exciting.
But then after
that, you lose it.
You lose the attraction to it.
You lose the affinity for it.
And it's like that with kids.
When there's all these
things that a kid can't have,
then that's all
they want is that.
But if you're saying,
finish your dinner first,
and then you can have
it, you're communicating
that there's an excess there.
And they're just over food
when they can have it.
So it's a little bit
of reverse psychology.
But it works in the
long term to communicate
that there's an excess there.
Yeah.
>> Is this only kids questions?
>> Go ahead.
>> What's a good grinder
to grind your flaxseeds?
>> A good grinder, yeah,
just any kind of cof--
>> Can you use a coffee grinder?
>> Any kind of coffee grinder or
a mortar and pestle will work.
>> OK.
And about emotional obesity--
>> Yeah.
>> --and this might
apply to a lot of people,
which is why I'm
presenting this.
Every time a really
good something
would come up in
the family's life,
I would always have
to lose weight.
OK?
But now my older son
is getting married,
and that thought
hasn't occurred to me.
So does that mean I've dealt
with the emotional obesity?
>> Mm.
[LAUGHTER]
Yes.
It's only like something.
I wouldn't worry about it.
>> Hi, Jon.
>> Hi.
>> You said in your book that
you got to a point where you
just accepted.
>> Yeah, I did, yeah.
>> How did you do that?
And how do you
learn how to let go?
>> Yeah, that was a really
important point for me is it
was that--
well, what used to happen
to me was like, I'd get up--
I remember when I first
got up to 100 kilos.
And I'd be like--
or 220 pounds, and be like,
oh, 100 kilos, you're so fat.
You go, I can't believe it.
And so I'd try to lose weight.
And I'd lose maybe 5 kilos.
And next thing I know, I'm 100.
I'd gain back,
and I'm 110 kilos.
And then I just wanted
to be 100 kilos again.
So now I'm 110 kilos.
I go, oh, I can believe
you're 110 kilos.
You're so fat.
And then I'd go on a diet
and lose a little bit.
Next thing, I'm 120 kilos.
Now I just want to be 110 again.
And this would go
on, and on, and on,
and on until I got over
180-some-odd kilos or 400
pounds.
And I said, you know what?
I give up.
I mean, if I have to
live the rest of my life
at 400 pounds or 180-some
kilos, I accept that.
I just don't want to
gain anymore weight.
>> You didn't.
>> You know, I'd just say, OK.
I finally accepted it.
And somehow, that really
helped turn things around.
>> It just happened.
>> Well, it happened as a
form of surrender, really.
It just happened
like, that's it.
I've gotten the gist of it.
It's not-- this
pattern, I'm not letting
this pattern go on any further.
I'm just, that's it.
I accept the weight I am.
If this is me, this
is me, and that's it.
And that was a really
important point for me
to come to, definitely, yeah.
>> Jon.
>> Yeah.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> No.
Just sorry.
>> Me?
Oh, hi.
>> I've got a niece and
nephew that are really,
really overweight.
>> Yeah.
>> And I can seriously relate
to them because I spent my whole
life being overweight
as a child.
Now, you can try to convince
them to lose the weight
or to eat healthy foods.
But if they've got no
self-worth to begin with--
>> That's right.
>> --how do they do it?
>> Because I've, you
know-- now, as an adult.
>> That's right.
You-- that's right.
You don't-- the point is,
you don't hit it straight on.
You don't try to convince
them to eat healthy
or to shame them.
They're not going to
be able to face it.
They're too frustrated.
They're too discouraged.
They're getting it from every
source, from their parents,
from doctors, from their
kid-- from the teachers,
from kids mercilessly
letting them know.
It's brutal, and
they've blocked it out.
But if you just simply
focus on adding foods
that are nutritious without
even them even knowing it,
and healthy foods that they
don't even know are healthy,
and then learning how
to deal with stresses,
and especially having omega
3s because it will increase
their concentration
and their focus,
and then they'll start to
have more and more energy
and participate in sports.
And you develop a
positive momentum
at a grassroots level
like that with them.
Then you can take them,
and turn them around,
and say, OK, let's
run with this.
You see you've lost
a little weight.
You see you're getting
in better shape.
You see you can try out for
the sport, whatever it is.
Let's run with it now.
Yeah.
That--
>> Jon, Jon.
>> Yeah.
>> Hi.
I'm fortunate in that my
children are naturally
very active, so they
don't have a weight issue
but refuse to eat
fruit, full stop,
and refuse to eat live food.
I don't know how to
get them to eat it,
even though we eat it at dinner.
And I serve it.
>> Keep eating it at dinner.
>> They just won't eat it.
>> Keep serving it.
Don't push it on them.
Don't push anything on them.
Keep eating it at dinner.
Keep serving it at dinner.
And make sure that they're
getting healthy foods
through these other methods with
like eating healthy foods that
don't seem like
they're healthy foods,
the super delicious,
super nutritious
foods that we're talking about.
And over time, keep trying.
Keep introducing it.
That's all.
Yeah.
All right, we have
a little bit of a--
where's Jack?
>> Last one.
Last one, Jon.
>> OK, after that, we're going--
I'm going to bring Harrison.
OK, Jack?
>> Hi, Jon.
>> Yeah.
>> I have a four-year-old
who goes to the child care.
And I don't have complaints
regarding his eating habits
in the sense he would eat
his vegetables and fruits all
the time, by himself as well.
The only issue is that he
loves too much of his chocolate
and ketchup.
So how to control that?
>> OK, I missed a little
bit of the question.
He's doing what?
>> He is eating his fruits
and vegetables very well.
>> OK, good.
>> He loves them.
But it's only the
chocolate and the ketchup,
how to control that.
>> Well, the
chocolate, you know,
chocolate can be really
healthy if you make it--
you can make it with xylitol
and with organic cocoa.
It becomes a really
healthy thing,
like I say, like the chocolate
mousses or the chocolate ice
cream that we make.
So he can have that.
Technically, you can
make healthy ketchup.
But let him have his ketchup.
If he's eating the
healthy food too,
keep the focus on
the healthy thing,
and let him have his ketchup,
and make healthy chocolates.
Yeah, and so I just--
we have a little bit of
a treat for you today
that I've never done before.
I've got someone that--
coming up here to
sing us a song.
Are we ready, Jack?
Where's Harrison?
Oh, here he comes out.
This is Harrison Craig-- is no
relation to Jenny, Jenny Craig.
[LAUGHTER]
And look how thin he is.
No, just-- he's a beautiful,
really gifted singer.
I just wanted to
bring him up here
and let him sing a song for us.
So let's give him a hand.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC - "THIS IS THE MOMENT"]
>> (SINGING) This is the moment.
This is the day when
I send all my doubts
and demons on their way.
Every endeavor I
have made ever is
coming into play, is
here and now today.
This is the moment.
This is the time when the
momentum and the moment
are in rhyme.
Give me this moment,
this precious chance.
I'll gather up my past and
make some sense at last.
This is the moment when all
I've done, all of the dreaming,
scheming, and
screaming become one.
This is the day.
See it sparkle and
shine when all I've
lived for becomes mine.
Through all the years,
I faced the world alone.
And now the time has
come to prove to them
I've made it on my own.
This is the moment,
my final test.
Destiny beckoned.
I never reckoned second best.
I won't look down.
I must not crawl.
And this is the moment, the
sweetest moment of them all.
This is the moment.
Damn all the odds.
It's this day or never.
I'll sit forever with the gods.
When I look back, I will always
recall, moment for moment,
this was the moment, the
greatest moment of them all.
Thank you very much.
>> Harrison Craig, everybody.
>> Thank you, Jon.
>> Thank you very
much, Harrison.
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you all very
much for coming today.
Thanks for everything.
Thank you so much for coming.
[APPLAUSE]
Thanks.
[MUSIC PLAYING]